The Joe Rogan experience.
Do you remember the bloom boxes? No, really? What is it?
You it's been thinking about them lately. I remember seeing 'em on 60 minutes,
years ago, and I think Google headquarters was powered by one. What does it,
they were these funky little black boxes that had some chemical process of
creating energy and they were early on massive news,
promising tech in their super groovy, little simple boxes.
And they originally did it for like campuses and military, like large,
um, large, uh, installations for, you know,
multiple complexes and stuff how'd they were,
but then they were also making them for automotive.
They had a prototype and I was so excited. I, I don't remember it's been years,
but it was some sort of,
I think it was a ionic transfer process that went through a series
of elements within the shielded box to create the energy.
But they were like self-sustaining and super groovy. It was called a bloom box.
Anything? Yeah,
literally it's just a big black box doesn't what's in there and.
I don't know what happened with them. They went belly up or someone there,
it selling 'em. Yeah.
So that 60 minutes. So that was powering Google at one point in time,
those things. Yeah. And what's.
Inside and I think Stanford was getting into it. I don't know,
major mental flash back for me, even though I'm remembering it.
It's just one of those things that seems so promising that then went by,
by same with like Toro deal engines.
There was a great engineer up in Lodi that was revisiting Toro deals
and he had a, he had a Ford focus that would do his,
like his daughter's old car with a blown up motor. He had his own Turro deal.
Motor had developed that could run from the energy in the
charged particles, in the air.
What this thing did like 15 miles an hour on a flat test track
running on air.
Charged particles in the air. Yes.
Ally charges.
As the technology improved that 15 miles an hour could be a,
a real speed. Yeah. Wow. Yeah.
And then that same guy,
I saw him once at a trade show and I was exhibiting at the show as well.
So I was there on setup day. I was bored outta my go. We were,
I was already set up on the Ford booth. So just walking around,
sort of sniffing around and see this trippy scientist guy in his lab coat
and this little booth that was like, you know, six by 10 foot booth.
And you know, at a show where people have like 200 by 60 foot booths,
mm-hmm <affirmative> and he's got this odd little Toro thing and then a bigger
Toro thing and literally like a chalkboard. So I'm like, dude, what's going on?
So I started talking to him about,
he starts explaining the technology and what he was doing, and like this small,
all one had 300 foot pounds of torque.
The larger one had 2000 and he was looking to develop it for
rail cars, for semis, for cars, like, and on and on and on. He is like, yeah,
the biggest problem is stopping it once it gets going,
because the deal structure meant that the compression cycle from, you know,
12 to two of that first cylinder was such that when the combustion occurred and
it propelled the next piston into the next combustion cycle and kept going.
So getting that power out of the central crank was a challenge.
And then how to stop the thing was like the bigger cha,
but they'd run on like horse,
ionic charge particles, uh, diesel gas,
like they didn't even need spark PL plug. So I'm like blown away by this.
I go back the next day. Where'd you go booth, gone, empty, done.
And I have the guys in info line, try to reach out to 'em gone website.
I'd looked at the night before gone got gobbled up
five years later.
I see him again at another trade show with another kick design. And man,
was he a bitter man? He's like, yeah, never again.
Cause they bought it and they shelved it. I'm never selling anything again. him.
I'm licensing to specific channel of applications and that's it,
his new product.
So what do you think happened if you're a conspiracy theorist?
Do you think someone bought him out and just I'm.
I'm I'm a small, independent business owner,
real realist in that hell yes. Someone didn't like that and they shelve that.
So.
They bought it and then just shoved it. Yep. Wow.
So his next product who did that? Um,
I don't know. And he was very cagey about it. Um,
then you had another product where you would replace the alternator in your car
with a generator and you had a small battery in the vehicle, right?
So this is a retrofit system. The retail model was brilliant,
cuz you'd have like a cheesy and expensive three axis mill,
a ton of CAD files and one product on the shelf. So in a lightweight car,
it was like an electric supercharge.
So you'd replace your a alternator and it had a tooth cog for the pulley.
And then your crank pulley would add a tooth cog to it and then tooth belt.
So the idea was it would,
is assist the internal combustion engine through its compression cycle.
It would negate the parasitic load of all the Fiat, all the front engine,
accessory drive mounted things, you know, your alternator, MOG pump or whatever,
by pushing the engine through the cycle with the captured electrical energy from
the deceleration, whoa.
And then in bigger cars it gave you like passes this and range, uh,
increase and, and did great things for PG.
And then the story I got on that one was BMW.
Put him under a big contract for it to license it and use it.
And then the guy disappeared off the face planet again.
Geez Christ. This guy happens.
Do you remember there was a video that was, uh,
search many years ago about a guy who created a car to run on air.
Uh, no, excuse me. Water created a car that runs on water.
And then this car that ran on water,
I mean apparently had a viable engine and it was really working. And uh,
and then he, he, he had a hard attack and as he was dying,
he was saying they killed me. They killed me. And then he died <laugh>.
And even.
From the, nobody heard from the, the water engine again, but, uh,
he's from Columbus. He's from Columbus too, from San. Yeah.
See that happens.
And I don't even like the term conspiracy theory because I think that's
something created by the machine to negate things that are disruptive and
innovative.
So we can put 'em in a little box and call it a conspiracy theory or whatever.
And therefore it never happened.
Well, anyone who doesn't believe in conspiracy theories? I say,
look at Jeffrey Epstein. Yes. It's real clear. Uh,
Meyer said that his invention could do what physicists say is impossible.
Turned water into hydrogen fuel efficiently enough to drive his dune buggy cross
country on 20 gallons, straight from the tap. Wow.
He took a sip of cranberry juice. Then he grabbed his neck, bolted out the door,
dropped to his knees and vomited violently.
I ran outside and asked him what's wrong. His brother or Ste Myer, uh, recalled.
He said they poisoned me. That was his dying declaration. That's up.
That's up. I don't know if it's true. He might've been nuts. Um,
or.
Both or both. That's, you know,
that's another thing like we like to just call people nuts and write 'em off
some of the greatest innovators, uh, you know,
throughout the history of mankind have been a little off the rocker ne Tesla.
Tesla was in love with the pigeon. Yeah. He was in love with the pigeon.
Love that story. Yeah. His final days, man.
And that, well, there's also a story that I read that I'm trying,
I've tried to substantiate that. Apparently he was, uh,
he was so frustrated by sexual desires and uh,
a love affair that he had and the distraction that it presented,
he quotes destroyed his sexuality. I do not know what that means.
You know what I'd like to look into.
It himself. I gotta say, man, I'm kind of tired of my penis,
still ruling my brain, you know, at 50 it's like,
I wouldn't mind to be able to take it off and leave it at home. Jesus. Well, no,
I mean just like enough already, like enough.
Already, you know, I get it. Yeah.
I mean like turn it on, turn it off as needed.
And when appropriate maybe engineer or something like,
I don't wanna be walking around like a, maybe.
I have a hip switch.
<laugh> just like something you could just like set it aside and become a UN for
a little bit.
Yeah. Or if these make it useful, make it like a GoPro Mount or something.
I don't.
Know. Yeah. I see what you're saying. There's uh, there's a lot,
lot of in innovation that does sort of get swept aside that you wonder,
like there's a documentary who killed the electric car.
Yeah. Again, Steven, uh, really interesting cat. The guy who, uh,
produced and developed that. Yeah. Lovely.
Guy. Yeah. I don't know who he is, but that is another example of, you know,
that that was an innovation and that was a little bit ahead of its time.
And the powers that be were like, you. Yeah.
They were not ready for it. Yeah. And that goes way back. I mean, you know, the,
have you heard of the, the Seldon patent, very interesting piece of American,
uh, transportation history,
this prick named seldom was one of the richest people in the country because he
was like one of your early patent trolls, ah, who like sat back one day, went,
you know, we got these horse carriages and then we got these new motor things.
And you know, at some point there could be a horseless carriage.
So he like literally did like a chicken scratch,
drawing and filed it and got awarded the patent.
So Henry Ford in his first two companies, as well as the Dodge brothers,
all the early pioneers in the transportation sector in the us had to pay this
prick a massive royalty to even produce the vehicle.
And it was Henry when he re when he,
after he went down and under and he goes reborn and came back out with Ford
motor company the second time <affirmative> that, uh, he said, you know what,
him, that. I'm not paying this.
And it was like eight years of court battles to overrule it in the national
automotive dealers association originally didn't want any trouble.
And everyone was paying.
And Henry was the one who had the gall and the balls to say, no, no,
where you not pay this prick. And they finally got it kicked to out,
but they say that hindered innovation and transportation for a good decade.
Wow.
Yeah, no, I.
Didn't know about that. Yeah. And it was only the electric starter,
the Magneto starter that Henry Ford integrated into his cars that really made
the massive shift away from predominance of electric cars to her
combustion.
So when you flash forward and you look at Mr. Payne's film who killed the
electric car and you look at Firestone and, uh, who was it? Um,
Pacific oil, but it was oil company tire company.
And they created that bus company.
And then they did all the lobbying to privatize municipal transport so that then
they could slowly buy 'em all up. And, you know,
California had an incredibly successful electric trolley system through the west
side. It was brilliant. It was pioneering. It was, they had everyone,
they're the ones that ended up stacked in the desert. You know,
there's some of that footage in the film. Yeah. Cuz they, they,
we're not gonna sell tires or oil if this goes down. So let's tank it.
Yeah. They do that. Yeah. They buy a company that's doing amazing.
Yeah. And then just put it on the shelf.